Homework 04
===========

Activity 1
==========


To parse the command line I used a while loop that would looked through each argument using the pop command. The pop command took the first argument, removed it, and returned it. If the argument was one of the flags, pop was used again to get the value that followed the flag and set the proper variable to that value. If there was not three arguments leftover, then the program would error out as there was not two net ids and a target file leftover. To build a temporary workspace, I used the tempfile.maktemp command. This made a temporary workspace and returned the path which i stored in a variable. I had to join this workspace with the new files I created for each image and the final gif. I also had a cleanup function to delete the temporary workspace once the script completed. To extract the URL's I used the requests module to get the profile data from a specified netid, used a regex to specify what the portrait URL would look like, then used the re module to extract all the data that matched the regex. This was then returned. All of this was done in the search_portrait function. To download the protraits, I created a function download_file that took each url and the path that it needed to be placed in. The path was created by joining the image file with the workspace. I used the requests module again to request the data at the image URL. I then opened the path passed into the function and wrote them image data to the file. This downloaded the image. To blend the images, I used the blend command and passed it into my function run_command, which tested the output of a given command to ensure that it was successful. To get every image that made up the GIF, I had to use a for loop to go through each step. I also had to link the workspace each time to the new image. Lastly the image had to be converted into a gif. This used a list that I had previously created with the convert command at the top and the list of gif images to be pulled together. This would allow for that data to be looped through. To reverse the image I just added more gifs to the list starting at the last gif genereated and going to the first. Lastly, to check for failure of operations, I used try and except to catch errors and output them to the user in a clear manner. 

Activity 2
==========

To parse the command line I used a while loop that would looked through each argument using the pop command. The pop command took the first argument, removed it, and returned it. If the argument was one of the flags, pop was used again t
o get the value that followed the flag and set the proper variable to that value. Then whatever was leftover became the term that needed to be searched for. If there wasn't anything leftover, the searchterm was just empty. To get JSON data, I used the requests module to pull the data. Once I had the data, I figured out that it was a dictionary that had certain levels of data to dig deeper into. The only keys I wanted were 'data' and 'children'. Once I was in those I had to go even deeper as those themselves were dictionaries and get the 'data' key. I iterated over each argument with a for loop to get into each article and then an if statement to search again for the SEARCH term. Within each article was 'data' and the FIELD to search for the term in. Using these, I pulled out the title, author, link, and shortlink. The shortlink was a little trickier to get. I had to first get the long link then create a pars dictionary with the format of a shortlink. I then gave the requests.get command parameters that equaled my new dictionary. Then when I called on the short variable I called the key 'shorturl'. To account for the limit of articles, I kept track of a count to see how many articles I had printed out so far. If the limit was exceeded, the program ended. 